I spent more than a decade thinking that studying was about reading difficult books for long hours. When I was 20 years old, I spent a whole year reading the first three books of Aristotle's Metaphysics. But I wasn't really learning. What I was doing was acquiring a new vocabulary and way to name things, things that exists but are beyond the every day life. For example: "essence", "materia", etc. It's fun to learn this way, and there's a merit in it (since you need to put a lot of effort into it), but, really? What are you even doing? 

<!-- I didn´t have the maturity to ask questions. It's even harder to "ask questions", practical questions, when what you are doing is philosophy -- but what about computers, even if it's CS theory? It's really easy to come up with a lot of questions, and, even better,  -->

What I should have been doing in those years is reading and asking simple questions. I had a professor who said "read one phrase in the morning, and take the rest of the day to think about it.". Back then, I didn´t have the maturity to understand what he was saying, but now I believe I do: learn something, and then asks questions, practical questions, simple questions, and answer them. It's really hard to do this with philosophy, even more if you are just a 20 year old kid, but, with computers? It's easy and fun. Why is it easy? Because computers are practical things -- and, even better, because you can check instanteneously if your hipothesis is correct. 

So, how to learn? When you try to read a book, there are a lots of information. Each information has a context. Each information has an history. Let's 
