+++
date = 2024-11-29
title = "Career: software development, SRE? I'm confused"
+++

A reader asked me if I work as a site reliability engineer. No, but sometimes I think about making a shift in my career. Since I started studying operating systems and networks, I can't shake the feeling that I should try the SRE path. The good people from r/sre tried to dissuade me; they really don't like being on call (who would?). But I can't shake this feeling. The problem is: whenever I try to study a "devops tool" (GitLab pipelines, or AWS), I get bored as hell. Where are the OS troubleshooting and network fun in all of that? It seems like devops/SRE is a place where tools reign, and tools are managed with YAML... Also: cloud. You can't understand cloud services because they are not open-sourced. You gotta trust the documentation, and the documentation is poor, practical, and uninteresting. What kind of person who likes to study AWS services, anyways? Kubernetes seems different. At least you can build something, and you need to understand the fundamentals to do so. But what about the rest? I liked the SRE book, though. I can sympathize with those ideas. Things like observability, deployment tactics, high-level (architectural?) inter-process communication things, and troubleshooting low-level stuff. These all sound fun to me. But building pipelines doesn't. I wonder if people in regular SRE jobs don't get bored too fast?

One of the most fun things that happened lately in my job was trying to help another developer who couldn't reach the database server. I got the chance to try traceroute, debug iptables, and think about what was causing the problem on his machine. Well, I guess I should at least try. Maybe the fun will appear in the everyday-life context. On the other hand, it seems to me that staff/principal engineers (in the software development path), at least in small-sized companies, also have the chance to work with those things. They don't code business logic anymore; they are more preoccupied with higher-level things, including infrastructure. Joining a new company now, who doesn't have a team responsible for infrastructure. I bet it's going to be a great chance for me to try this new path.
